Add tuning options and docs (#1081)
zio/zio-kafka: docs/tuning.md

# Tuning the consumer

Zio-kafka's consumer can be tuned with the `ConsumerSettings` class. 

```scala
val settings = ConsumerSettings(bootstrapServers)
  .withGroupId(groupId)
  .withProperties(properties)
  .... etc.
```

> ## Throughput and latency

Reviewer: We can also recommend here to use partitionedStream and do batched commits for higher throughput.

Author: Definitely right.
A new can of worms though. Shall we leave that for another PR?

The kafka client can be tuned for either high throughput or low latency, unfortunately not both.
The most important settings for tuning throughput and latency are:

* poll timeout — This is the maximum time to block while polling the Kafka consumer. Zio-kafka's default is 50ms which is good for low latency applications. Set this higher, e.g. `500ms` for better throughput.
* [configuration `max.poll.records`](https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#consumerconfigs_max.poll.records) — The maximum number of records a poll will return. Kafka defaults this to 500. You can set this higher for more throughput, or lower for lower latency.

Methods `ConsumerSettings.tuneForHighThroughput` and `ConsumerSettings.tuneForLowLatency` make it easy to configure
these parameters:

```scala
val highThroughputSettings = ConsumerSettings(bootstrapServers).tuneForHighThroughput
val lowLatencySettings = ConsumerSettings(bootstrapServers).tuneForLowLatency
```

> 

Reviewer: Should we add the `maxPartitionQueueSize` here? At some point it becomes a bottleneck for throughput, especially if you don't have too many partitions

Author: Right, when there is a high variability in processing time this might become a bottleneck. Also, when you set `max.poll.records` really high, you don't want to disable pre-fetching with a low `maxPartitionQueueSize`. Does that cover it?

Author: I just realized that `maxPartitionQueueSize` is not an absolute maximum. When a chunk comes in that is larger, the queue will contain more than that.

Reviewer: Right..! It's the queue size at which no further data fetches will be executed for that partition. If we can summarize that in a nice variable name..

Author: WDYT of:
```
* @param fetchMaxQueueSize
*   The queue size below which more records are fetched and buffered (per partition).
```

Reviewer: Hmm not necessarily better. `partitionPreFetchBufferLimit` ? 😅

Author: That is already better indeed.
Addressed in https://github.com/zio/zio-kafka/pull/1081/commits/b34d73a2dcb68d315cf28430d4c0e858a3a4e021

## Long processing durations

To detect stalled consumers, Kafka revokes a partition when a consumer does not poll within the max poll interval (see [configuration `max.poll.interval.ms`](https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#consumerconfigs_max.poll.interval.ms)). The default max poll interval is 5 minutes. After a partition is revoked, it will be assigned to another consumer.

To see if your application must be configured with a higher `max.poll.interval.ms` value we need to consider the
maximum duration between polls. If processing is sequential, we can obtain this maximum by multiplying
`max.poll.records` with the maximum duration to process a single record. To also accommodate things like long garbage
collections and buffering, configuration `max.poll.interval.ms` should be substantially higher than the maximum
processing time.

`max.poll.interval.ms` can be set with:

```scala
ConsumerSettings.withMaxPollInterval(15.minutes)
```

on older zio-kafka version `withMaxPollInterval` is not available, use the following instead:

```scala
withProperty("max.poll.interval.ms", "900000") // 15 minutes
```

> ⚠️In zio-kafka versions 2.2 up to 2.5.0 it may also be necessary to tune the `runloopTimeout` setting.

Reviewer: tune -> increase, actually

Author: In https://github.com/zio/zio-kafka/pull/1081/commits/7703140375862e10b170ccd81d9529181b747682

> When no stream is processing data for this amount of time, the consumer will halt with a failure.

Reviewer: This suggests that when you have an idle topic, zio-kafka would stop processing, which is not the case, it will keep on polling.

Author: Correct! I will update the text.

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/zio/zio-kafka/pull/1081/commits/7703140375862e10b170ccd81d9529181b747682

  .withGroupId(groupId)
  .withProperties(properties)
  .... etc.
```

## Names

Two very similarly named settings are relevant. Don't mix them up:

* `pollTimeout` — how long a poll may take
* `max.poll.interval.ms` — the maximum time between polls

## Throughput and latency

The kafka client can be tuned for either high throughput or low latency, unfortunately not both.
The most important settings for tuning throughput and latency are:

* poll timeout — This is the maximum time to block while polling the Kafka consumer. Zio-kafka's default is 50ms which
  is good for low latency applications. Set this higher, e.g. `500ms` for better throughput.
* [configuration `max.poll.records`](https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#consumerconfigs_max.poll.records) — The maximum number of records a poll will return. Kafka defaults this to
  500. You can set this higher for more throughput, or lower for lower latency.
* the fetch strategy parameter `partitionPreFetchBufferLimit` — when the number of records in a partition queue is
  below this value, zio-kafka will start to pre-fetch and buffer more records from Kafka. The default value for this

>   parameter is `1024`; 2 * the default `max.poll.records` of 500, rounded to the nearest power of 2.

Reviewer 2: 🟢 Maybe we could make it clearer which config is a zio-kafka config and which is a Kafka client config

```
* zio-kafka's `pollTimeout` - ...
* Kafka clients' [`max.poll.records`](https://kafka.apache.org/documentation/#consumerconfigs_max.poll.records) - ...
* zio-kafka's `partitionPreFetchBufferLimit` - ...
```

WDYT?

> Methods `ConsumerSettings.tuneForHighThroughput` and `ConsumerSettings.tuneForLowLatency` make it easy to configure

Reviewer 2: I'd write it like this:
```
Zio-kafka also provides 2 methods to help you tune these parameters of your consumers: `ConsumerSettings::tuneForHighThroughput` and `ConsumerSettings::tuneForLowLatency`
Each one of these methods will tune values of the `pollTimeout`, `max.poll.records` and `partitionPreFetchBufferLimit` configs to optimize your consumer according to your needs
```

WDYT?

Author: Yep, better.

these parameters:

```scala
val highThroughputSettings = ConsumerSettings(bootstrapServers).tuneForHighThroughput
val lowLatencySettings = ConsumerSettings(bootstrapServers).tuneForLowLatency
```

Kafka’s performance is not very sensitive to record size. However, when records become very small (< 100 bytes) or very
large (> 100Kb), increasing or decreasing `max.poll.records` and `partitionPreFetchBufferLimit` can be considered.

## High number of partitions

When a lot of partitions need to be consumed, we need to take into account that heap is needed to store the records in

> the partition queues. A very rough estimate for the maximum amount of heap needed is given by: `average record size` *

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the partitions queue. A very rough estimate for the maximum amount of heap needed is given by: `average record size` *
```

I'm not sure about this one as I'm not a native English speaker

Reviewer 2: I'm always confused by this in English 😅
